---  
type: TutorialClass  
title: Glossary  
description: A comprehensive glossary of terms used in this tutorial organized  
  alphabetically. Links direct you to the first instance of the term in the  
  tutorial. In most cases I have defined the terms in my own words and often are  
  meant to provide context around what I am discussing. More precise definitions  
  should be searched for elsewhere.  
share: true  
created: Thursday, June 8th 2023, 1:57:23 am  
modified: Thursday, June 8th 2023, 4:36:10 am  
tags:  
  - glossary  
  - defintions  
  - terms  
  - vocabulary  
status: updating  
---  
  
  
---  
  
# Glossary  
  
---  
- [Markdown Language](./0_Getting_Started/0.1_Note_Taking_with_Obsidian.md#obsidian): Is a pseudo-language that is written completely in plain text, using symbols and quick (hot) keys to format and otherwise customize the appearance of the text, rather than using menus like a traditional word processor. Among the many options: you can bold, italicize, create links, assign different sized headers, etc. all without taking your hands off the keyboard.  
-  [Multi-root Workspace](./0_Getting_Started/0.2_Development_with_VSCode.md#customizing-vs-code) : A [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) environment that encompasses the root project folder and all subdirectories, and contains a `*.code-workspace` file. Within this environment, settings can be prioritized and specified based on the language/s used within the project or just configured for usability. I won’t go into much detail here as I’m most excited to share the extensions but [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) goes into great detail about settings for each scope (user, workspace, global, etc). You can find that information here : [Multi-root Workspaces in Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces).  
- [Vault & Vault Switcher](./0_Getting_Started/0.1_Note_Taking_with_Obsidian.md#installing-obsidian) : As mentioned previously, [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) stores your files on your local file system as opposed to a cloud-based system. The folder in which you store the `.md` files generated by the app is called your “Vault” and the only thing that distinguishes it from your other folders is the `.obsidian` folder, which contains all the configuration for the app. Should you decide to make more than one Vault, you can copy that folder and paste it into your other vaults, otherwise you will need to reconfigure each Vault from scratch.  
- [Zettelkasten](./0_Getting_Started/0.1_Note_Taking_with_Obsidian.md#obsidian) : Is a method of linking concepts and notes to related concepts and notes through the use of tags, headers, or other user-defined metadata. In practice, it is proven to reinforce learning, define hidden connections between concepts, and organize large bodies of information.  
---  
  
